There are two types of methods to calculate PRS:
1. Traditional PRS 
The traditional method estimates the average effect size of each genetic variant on a trait/disease by using a large reference panel.
The effect size will contribute to the knowledge of snps contributing to the risk of trait.
Based on the effect sizes and to calculate the overall PRS, a weighted sum is calculated for each individual snps. 
Traditional PRS is generated by  Sigma (snps * effect size) [FORMULA OF PRS]

2. Bayesian PRS
The bayesian approach introduces the concept of prior probabilities which means that it would consider the prior knowledge about the effect sizes of enps before analyzing specific data.
For example, PRScs uses linkage disequilibrium reference panel generated using 375,120 individuals (https://personal.broadinstitute.org/hhuang/public/PRS-CSx/Reference/UKBB/UKBB_ref.txt) from UKBB.
Bayesian PRS are more flexible as incorportes existing biological knowledge, however, choosing the right prior biological panels is important and provides more improved accuracy in terms of risk estimates.
Bayesian PRS could be computationally complex. 

What is the working of PRScs?
1. From the GWAS (our own genotypic data), we get snps and effect sizes. LD Reference panel is being used as prior knowledge and it tends to tell us which snps are important. 
2. PRScs looks for the snps from GWAS and tries to match with the reference panel to see how much the snps affects the effect size. In other terms, it looks for the snps that are in high linkage disequilibrium with it.Snps in LD are likely to share similar effects on traits. 
3. Sometimes, the effect size on all of the snps is not measured. In such scenarios, Linkage disequilium is helpful as it can still leverage the effect size of nearby snps's to estimate the contribution of your individual snps. 
4. PRScs will give weight o the snps by comparing with LD ref and will adjust the importance of each weight based on:
- Reliability of each snp in reference panel
- how closely the snp matches with reference panel
5. Adds the effects of all weighted effect sizes to tell the risk score.


Polygenic scores can be found using Traditional and Bayesian approaches. The
traditional method uses a large reference panel to estimate the average effect
size of each genetic variant on a trait/disease. The effect size will contribute to
the knowledge of snps contributing to the risk of the trait. Based on the effect
sizes, a weighted sum is calculated for each snp that provides the polygenic score
for disease/trait. To test the traditional approach, PRSice was used to calculate
PGS for distensibility. However, on the contrary, the bayesian approach is based
on the concept of prior probabilities which implies that it would consider the
prior knowledge related to the effect sizes of snps before analysing specific data.
For example, based on Bayesian approach, PRScs uses a linkage disequilibrium
reference panel generated using 375,120 individuals from UKBB. Bayesian PRS
are more flexible as they incorporate existing biological knowledge; however,
choosing the right prior biological panels is important and provides more im-
proved accuracy in terms of risk estimates. Following the Bayesian approach,
PRScs was used to find the polygenic scores for distensibility.
